
## Output Files

The output files in this folder are intermediate files towards the final CODEML analysis. In order to run CODEML, a multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic tree is needed for each gene.

### Multiple sequence alignments

Sequences are aligned using pre-set parameters of [Clustal Omega 1.2.2](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/clustalo/), and output is used as input for [Gblocks 0.91b](http://molevol.cmima.csic.es/castresana/Gblocks_server.html) for a gap-free alignment. 

Parameters for Gblocks: sequence type (-t) is set to codons, and no minimum or maximum number of contiguous conserved/nonconserved positions are set. Gap positions are not allowed. In order to do downstream phylogenetic and selection analysis, the Gblocks sequence alignment is kept in two file formats: the original FASTA, and a nexus file generated by converting the FASTA.

### Phylogenetic trees

Trees are constructed in MrBayes version pre-3.2.7 using the Gblocks alignment in nexus format as input. The follow commands are used in the command-line interface to set the substitution model (Nst), and gamma distribution model with invariant positions (Invgamma) parameters: 

```sh

$ execute <filename>
#If file is properly execute, the prompt will indicate that the file was read, at which point parameters can be set
$ lset Nst=2 
$ lset Rate=Invgamma
$ mcmc
#The program is automatically set to run 1,000,000 generations and 4 MCMC chains; once tree is complete, discard a percentage of total treees from beginning of chain
$ sumt relburnin=yes burninfrac=0.25

```

Additional parameters can be set using lset after the MSA file in nexus format is executed. For this analysis, the NucModel is set to 4by4 with a universal code, ploidy set to diploid, and Ngammacat, Nlnormcat, and Nbetacat set to 4. MRBAYES will run two independent analyses using 4 Markov Chain Monte Carlo chains (one cold, three hot) and ngen=1,000,000. 

One the consensus tree is generated, it must be converted from .con.tre to newick format. Any online file converter can be used; for this analysis figtree v.1.4.3 is used. 


 


