analysis/README.md, before:

# Data Analysis 

PAML4 software will be used to conduct selection analysis. 

## PAML Installation 

The windows win32 program was downloaded [Phylogenetic Analysis by Maximum Likelihood (PAML4)](http://abacus.gene.ucl.ac.uk/software/paml.html).

Archieve paml4.9i.tgz package containing executable files was also downloaded. It was extracted into a local folder. The following source code was used to compile the program:

```sh

$ cd Programs/PAML/paml4.9i
$ rm bin/*.exe
$ make -f Makefile
$ ls -lF
$ mv baseml basemlg codeml pamp evolver yn00 chi2 ..
$ cd ..
$ ls -lF

```

## Running Codeml

In order to conduct selection analysis, codeml is used, which requires the following information:
1. a pairwise sequence alignment, with gaps removed to allow codeml to read sequences properly and limit false signals of selection
2. control file indicating run parameters

### Pairwise sequence alignments

Sequences are aligned using pre-set parameters of [PRANK](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/prank/), and output is copied and pasted into input field of [Gblocks 0.91b](http://phylogeny.lirmm.fr/phylo_cgi/one_task.cgi?task_type=gblocks&tab_index=2) for a gap-free alignment. Pre-set parameters are used. The output is saved in PHY (phylip) format for execution in codeml. 

### Control file

Commit message:

update to control file tests used

analysis/README.md, after:

# Data Analysis 

PAML4 software will be used to conduct selection analysis. 

## PAML Installation 

The windows win32 program was downloaded [Phylogenetic Analysis by Maximum Likelihood (PAML4)](http://abacus.gene.ucl.ac.uk/software/paml.html).

Archieve paml4.9i.tgz package containing executable files was also downloaded. It was extracted into a local folder. The following source code was used to compile the program:

```sh

$ cd Programs/PAML/paml4.9i
$ rm bin/*.exe
$ make -f Makefile
$ ls -lF
$ mv baseml basemlg codeml pamp evolver yn00 chi2 ..
$ cd ..
$ ls -lF

```

## Running Codeml

In order to conduct selection analysis, codeml free-ratio and site-specific models are used, which requires the following information:
1. a pairwise sequence alignment, with gaps removed to allow codeml to read sequences properly and limit false signals of selection
2. control file indicating run parameters

### Pairwise sequence alignments

Sequences are aligned using pre-set parameters of [PRANK](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/prank/), and output is copied and pasted into input field of [Gblocks 0.91b](http://phylogeny.lirmm.fr/phylo_cgi/one_task.cgi?task_type=gblocks&tab_index=2) for a gap-free alignment. Pre-set parameters are used. The output is saved in PHY (phylip) format for execution in codeml. 

### Control file

The control file (.ctl) is used to indicate input and output files, and parameters used. Seqtype specifies the type of data- codon or amino acoid.
